

Sexual & Reproductive Health
Sexual & Reproductive Health
The CDC estimates that youth ages 15-24 account for half of the 20 million new sexually transmitted infections (STI) that occur in the United States each year. The following are some helpful resources to help you make healthy informed decisions. 
What STI and reproductive health services are offered at the Wellness Center?

Through our partnership with FamCare, students have access to sexual and reproductive health services in the Wellness Center on Wednesdays during the semester by appointment. While FamCare does accept some insurance plans, the following services are offered for free or at a reasonable charge:

Female ("Well Woman") Exams- Pap test (only when age appropriate), Pelvic Exam, Breast Exam, Anemia Screen, Testing & Treatment for Sexually Transmitted Infections, Health Counseling, Birth Control Medications, Free HIV testing at the Glassboro Office
Contraceptive Birth Control (low cost)- Oral Contraception (pills), Nuva Ring®, Depo-Provera Injections, IUD, Nexaplon® Condoms (male & female), Dental Dams
Male Exams- Testing and Treatment for Sexually transmitted Infections (Herpes, Chlamydia, Gonorrhea), Cancer Screening, Free HIV testing at the Glassboro Office
FamCare services are also available Monday – Friday at the Glassboro office 711 N. Main Street. Call 856-794-1235 for information or to schedule an appointment.  The Main Street office takes walk-ins during office hours.  Students are responsible for payment of these charges at time of service. 




Students presenting with symptoms of STI’s can make an appointment with our medical providers at the Wellness Center. Students will be tested and offered treatment for a nominal charge. 


The Wellness Center offers confidential STI testing for students. Make an appointment by logging in online here.  This clinic is not for students who have symptoms. Click here to review frequently asked questions for the STI screening clinic.  


Students are encouraged to check out Free Condom Friday - hosted by Rowan Healthy Campus Initiatives. Take up to five male latex condoms and information about your sexual health. No workshop, no gimmick, no catch. Fridays, 10am-12am at The Wellness Center Information Desk. 
Our partners at the Gloucester County Health Department offer free confidential STI Clinic every Wednesday from 3 to 4:30pm and HIV testing clinic from 4 to 5:30 Thursdays. No appointment necessary.


Gloucester County Department of Health Offices @ East Holly 204 East Holly Avenue  Sewell, NJ 08080



